Custom plugin documentation (#1222)
Redocly/redocly-cli: docs/custom-plugins/index.md

---
title: Custom plugins in Redocly
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/cli/custom-rules/
  - /docs/cli/resources/custom-rules/
  - /docs/cli/resources/custom-plugins/
---

# Custom plugins

> Custom plugins are a powerful way to extend Redocly. Use of custom plugins requires requires in-depth knowledge of the document type (such as OpenAPI) that you are working with, JavaScript coding skills, and the plugin interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom plugins are a powerful way to extend Redocly. Use of custom plugins requires in-depth knowledge of the document type (such as OpenAPI) that you are working with, JavaScript coding skills, and the plugin interface.
```

Custom plugins are recommended for advanced users who have exhausted the built-in options available, and who can develop JavaScript extensions themselves.

> Each plugin is a JavaScript module which can export custom rules, configuration, preprocessors, decorators or type tree extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each plugin is a JavaScript module which can export custom rules, configurations, preprocessors, decorators or type tree extensions.
```

Reviewer: So it might be an American/English thing, because from what I can tell configuration can be made plural with an "s" in American English and it is fine. I do not have particularly strong feelings either way though, so your choice.

Author: If it  seems off to you, it probably seems wrong to other US English speakers so I'm accepting the suggestion. Happy to hear that either would be valid though!

:::Info
For many users, the highly [configurable rules](../rules/configurable-rules.md) covers their needs without needing a custom plugin.
:::

Custom plugins use the [visitor pattern](./visitor.md) to traverse the document structure and apply the rules and decorators (and preprocessors if you have them) to each element. Rules defined in custom plugins may need additional context available, and this can be achieved using the [nested visitor approach](./visitor.md#nested-visitors) (please note that nested visitors are not available for decorators or preprocessors).

## Extend Redocly with custom plugins

> The custom plugin functionality offers multiple ways to extend the built-in functionality of Redocly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom plugins can extend the built-in functionality of Redocly in the following ways:
```

> - **Write your own custom rules in JavaScript**. If your API standards include elements that can't be expressed by our existing rules, including configurable ones, you can code your own rules. See the [documentation on writing your own rules in custom plugins](./custom-rules.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Write your own custom rules in JavaScript**. If your API standards include elements that can't be expressed by our existing rules, including configurable ones, you can code your own rules. See the [documentation on writing your own rules in custom plugins](./custom-rules.md) for more information.
```

### Order of execution

Some commands, such as using `bundle` with `--lint`, may execute more than one type of functionality. The order is preprocessors first, then linting rules, and finally the decorators are applied.

```mermaid
graph LR
    A(1. preprocessors) ==> B(2. rules)
    B ==> V(3. decorators)
    style A fill:#codaf9,stroke:#0044d4,stroke-width:4px
    style B fill:#codaf9,stroke:#0044d4,stroke-width:4px
    style V fill:#codaf9,stroke:#0044d4,stroke-width:4px
```

## Add custom plugins to your project

Each plugin can contain any or many of each type of extension (rules, configuration, decorators, etc). 

Define the plugins to include in the `redocly.yaml` configuration file, in the `plugins` section:

```yaml

plugins:
  - plugins/my-best-plugin.js
  - plugins/another-plugin.js
```

The paths are relative to the configuration file location. Where there are multiple features that happen at the same time, such as decorators, the plugins loaded first in the `plugins` section are processed first.

### Plugin structure

> The minimal plugin should export an `id` string that is used to refer to the contents of the plugin in configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimal plugin should export an `id` string that is used to refer to the contents of the plugin in the `redocly.yaml` configuration file:
```

```js
module.exports = {
  id: 'my-local-plugin'
}

> ```

Reviewer: Should we also include a sample `redocly.yaml` file with the id used?

Author: I'm not sure it's that useful because this section is about how to structure the plugin, and how it should be used is different for each type of thing you put in your plugin, so I put the examples in each specific page.

> <a id="oas-major-versions"></a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Suggestion: remove anchor because there are no links to this document or anchor that I could find. Maybe I'm  searching the wrong place?

## Supported formats

> Everything that is exported from plugin relates to one of the supported document formats, such as OpenAPI v3. It is done by exporting an object containing a key-value mapping from a document format and version (`oas2` or `oas3` are supported) to an extension object (rules, preprocessors, decorators).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything that is exported from a plugin relates to one of the supported document formats, such as OpenAPI v3. Plugins work by exporting an object containing a key-value mapping from a document format and version (`oas2` or `oas3` are supported) to an extension object (rules, preprocessors, decorators).
```

> Before processing the definition document Redocly CLI detects the document format and applies corresponding set of extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before processing the definition document, Redocly CLI detects the document format and applies a corresponding set of extensions.
```
